# Introduction 
============

This manual contains information for operating the modular system. The
is a high-performance instrument that provides low-noise and
high-ratings electric current and temperature control to drive
optoelectronic devices. The is particularly suited to drive state of the
art semiconductor and Quantum Cascade laser (QCL) sources. This chapter
addresses pertinent safety issues and correct usage of this instrument,
and defines all front panel connections and LED function indicators.
Please, carefully read this chapter before using the .

## Safety consideration
--------------------

The is a versatile instrument that can be used in a variety of driving
current and temperature conditions. However, the is not intended for a
fail-safe operation in hazardous environments or life-threatening
situations. The user assumes full responsibility for correct and safe
usage of the in accordance with any applicable laws, codes and
regulations, and standard pertaining to their specific application.
ppqSense S.r.l. is not liable for any consequential damage due to
misapplication or failure of the system.

The System is compliant with the following standards: **EN 61326-1, EN
55011, EN 61000-4-2, EN61000-4-8, EN61000-4-3**

## Part List
---------

The system is shipped in a package designed to provide excellent
protection. The shipping box should be saved for future transportation
or storage. Carefully unpack and inspect the following items that are
contained in the shipping box.

-   **driver**, built with a variable number and kind of modules
    depending on the ordered model.

-   **Power supply cable**.

-   **TC cable**, to connect the temperature controller (only included
    if the mounts a Temperature Controller module).

-   **USB cable**, to connect the driver to the controlling PC.

-   **USB drive**, which contains the required software and drivers.

-   **QubePS**, switching power supply for the driver, if included in
    the order.

## Electrical power supply {#cpt:Power_suppl}
-----------------------

The system must be powered by a unipolar **floating** DC power supply.
If the QubePS is not included in the kit, a dual channel power supply or
two different power supplies are necessary to independently drive the
Current Generator \[CM\] and the Temperature Controller \[TC\] modules.
**CM** modules must be powered by a DC power supply providing **V and at
least 3 A** for a versatile usage and for a full compliance to the
declared performances and dynamic range. **TC** modules must be powered
by a DC power supply providing **12 V and 4 A**, for a versatile usage
and to guarantee performances of the TC module.

User must refer to **Table [1](#Power_source_table)** for minimum, maximum and typical
allowable voltages for power supply of the . Please, note that using
source voltages that differ from the ones indicated as *typical*, even
if in between the maximum and minimum values, may lead to poor
calibration of the driver or to potentially damaging heat generation.

### Power source table
   **DC Input**   **minimum**   **typical**   **maximum**
  -------------- ------------- ------------- -------------
       LAS            +V            +V            +V
       TEC           +8 V          +12 V         +24 V

  : [\[Power\_source\_table\]]{#Power_source_table
  label="Power_source_table"} Power source voltages specifications
:::

Power supplies used to source the drivers must be **floating power
supplies**. The terminals of the power supply must not be connected to
Earth or to one another in any circumstance.

#### 

If the QubePS power supply is included in the kit, the user has simply
to connect the QubePS to the with the dedicated cable delivered within
the box. The power cord needed to connect the QubePS to the electrical
outlet is not provided.

Connectors and LED indicators functions {#cpt:led_and_connectors}
---------------------------------------

#### 

A schematic view of the front panel of the can be seen in **figure
[1](#fig:Qube_front_panel){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:Qube_front_panel"}**. The image represents a 15TL, being
a equipped with a 1.5 A current generator, Temperature Controller module
and Phase-Locked Loop module. Below, a list of the connectors and LEDs
present on the front panel can be found, along with their description:

**Connectors:**

-   **C1. Power**: power supply connector of the instrument.

-   **C2. USB**: this USB port must be used to connect the to an host
    computer in order to control and supervise its operations.

-   **C3. TEMP out**: used to connect the supplied TC cable for the
    temperature control of the driven device. It provides NTC (10 kÎ©)
    temperature sensor input and TEC output (2.7A maximum).

-   **C4. CURRENT out**: Output SMA connector. The driver supplies the
    current through this connector to the controlled laser device. A
    proper SMA cable must be provided by the user. The output provides a
    maximum current corresponding to the limits of the installed CM
    modules of the (for example 1.5A for a with one CM10 and one CM05
    modules), with a maximum output voltage compliance of V.

-   **C5/C6. MOD1/2 in**: Input SMA connectors. May be used to source
    finely controlled modulating signals to the laser current, with the
    amplitude proportional to the applied control voltages.

![15TP front panel](images/QubeCL_Mockup_Conn.png){#fig:Qube_front_panel
width="0.8\\linewidth"}

**LED indicators:**

-   **L1. CONNECT**: Green. Switched on when the driver is connected to
    an host PC through its USB port.

-   **L2. CUR ON**: Yellow. Switched on when the sources current from C4
    Current out connector to the controlled laser.

-   **L3. MOD ON**: Yellow. Switched on when the modulation signals are
    enabled.

-   **L4. PWR ON**: Green. Switched on when the main unit is powered on.

-   **L5. TC unlock**: Red. Switched on when the temperature of the
    controlled device is different with respect to the temperature
    set-point value.

-   **L6. TC lock**: Green. Switched on when the temperature of the
    controlled device is locked and equal to the temperature set-point
    value.

#### 

The list only comprehends the LEDs and connectors that are present on
the majority of the possible configurations. A detailed description of
*PLL* module, along with other application-specific modules, can be
found further below in this manual.

### Power connector {#cpt:power_connector}

r0.58 ![image](images/\PowerConnectorIMG){width="9cm"}

#### 

The kit comes with a dedicated power supply cable to connect the to its
power supply. One of the ends of the power cable is already equipped
with a 10 poles connector compatible with the one present on the driver
(see **figure
[\[fig:power\_connector\]](#fig:power_connector){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:power_connector"}**). If the QubePS is provided with the
kit, the cable is ready to be directly plugged into the QubePS
connector. Alternatively, when the QubePS is not provided, the cable is
equipped with four plugs to be connected to the power supplies. The four
plugs can be identified as the subsequent ones:

-   two for CM power supply (green-labelled PS Las +, white-labelled PS
    Las -)

-   two for TC power supply (red-labelled PS TEC +, yellow-labelled PS
    TEC -).

### TEC connector {#cpt:tec_connector}

r0.5 ![image](images/TEC_conn.png){width="8cm"}

#### 

If the is equipped with the TC module, but not with a laser-housing
module, a proper connection with the Peltier-based stage of the laser
and with the NTC temperature sensor must be established. The kit
includes a TEC cable with one of its ends already equipped with the
proper connector to be plugged into the TC module. The user must adapt
the other end of the TEC cable in order to connect it to the laser.
Please, refer to the wires colors represented in **figure
[\[fig:TC\_connector\]](#fig:TC_connector){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:TC_connector"}** to properly connect the TEC cable to the
laser.

 Software installation {#cpt:SW_installation}
---------------------

#### 

Every system, regardless of the specific model, can be controlled by the
mean of the same Control Software, which comes in the USB key included
in the kit. The Software has been developed under *LabView Runtime
Environment*.

#### 

To install the Software on Windows OS, please follow these steps. All
the needed softwares are provided inside the USB key that comes inside
the kit.

-   Run the library installation application to install the following
    libraries and drivers:

    -   Microcontroller USB-driver (CDM21228Setup)

    -   LabVIEW NI-VISA Utilities (NIVISA1600full)

-   Copy the directory \"*/CONTROL:vX.X*\" and all its content in a
    directory of your choice in the computer.

More information can also be found in the *readme.txt* file in the main
directory of the USB key.

### Direct control over the  {#cpt:direct_control}

#### 

The communication between the driver and the host PC runs over a UART
serial protocol. The Software provides a easy and intuitive Graphical
Interface and manages all the serial communication with the driver.
Nevertheless, direct communication to the , bypassing the Software, may
be useful to include the driver in a automatized control software that
manages a more complex instrumental setup. To allow direct communication
without the Software, a complete list of all the available commands,
with their meaning and format, along with some technical specification
for the UART protocol to be used, may be requested to ppqSense if
needed.

Directly interfacing with the requires a complete understanding of the
functionality of the driver in order to avoid any damage to the device
or to the laser. If you want use this feature, please contact ppqSense.

**Table [1](../sections/introduction.md###Power_source_table)**